The term machine learning refers to the automated detection of meaningful
patterns in data. In the past couple of decades it has become a common tool in
almost any task that requires information extraction from large data sets. We are
surrounded by a machine learning based technology: search engines learn how
to bring us the best results (while placing profitable ads), anti-spam software
learns to filter our email messages, and credit card transactions are secured by
a software that learns how to detect frauds. Digital cameras learn to detect
faces and intelligent personal assistance applications on smart-phones learn to
recognize voice commands. Cars are equipped with accident prevention systems
that are built using machine learning algorithms. Machine learning is also widely
used in scientific applications such as bioinformatics, medicine, and astronomy.
One common feature of all of these applications is that, in contrast to more
traditional uses of computers, in these cases, due to the complexity of the patterns
that need to be detected, a human programmer cannot provide an explicit, finedetailed specification of how such tasks should be executed. Taking example from
intelligent beings, many of our skills are acquired or refined through learning from
our experience (rather than following explicit instructions given to us). Machine
learning tools are concerned with endowing programs with the ability to “learn”
and adapt.
The first goal of this book is to provide a rigorous, yet easy to follow, introduction to the main concepts underlying machine learning: What is learning?
How can a machine learn? How do we quantify the resources needed to learn a
given concept? Is learning always possible? Can we know if the learning process
succeeded or failed?
The second goal of this book is to present several key machine learning algorithms. We chose to present algorithms that on one hand are successfully used
in practice and on the other hand give a wide spectrum of different learning
techniques. Additionally, we pay specific attention to algorithms appropriate for
large scale learning (a.k.a. “Big Data”), since in recent years, our world has become increasingly “digitized” and the amount of data available for learning is
dramatically increasing. As a result, in many applications data is plentiful and
computation time is the main bottleneck. We therefore explicitly quantify both
the amount of data and the amount of computation time needed to learn a given
concept.
The book is divided into four parts. The first part aims at giving an initial
rigorous answer to the fundamental questions of learning. We describe a generalization of Valiant’s Probably Approximately Correct (PAC) learning model,
which is a first solid answer to the question “what is learning?”. We describe
the Empirical Risk Minimization (ERM), Structural Risk Minimization (SRM),
and Minimum Description Length (MDL) learning rules, which shows “how can
a machine learn”. We quantify the amount of data needed for learning using
the ERM, SRM, and MDL rules and show how learning might fail by deriving
viii
a “no-free-lunch” theorem. We also discuss how much computation time is required for learning. In the second part of the book we describe various learning
algorithms. For some of the algorithms, we first present a more general learning
principle, and then show how the algorithm follows the principle. While the first
two parts of the book focus on the PAC model, the third part extends the scope
by presenting a wider variety of learning models. Finally, the last part of the
book is devoted to advanced theory.
We made an attempt to keep the book as self-contained as possible. However,
the reader is assumed to be comfortable with basic notions of probability, linear
algebra, analysis, and algorithms. The first three parts of the book are intended
for first year graduate students in computer science, engineering, mathematics, or
statistics. It can also be accessible to undergraduate students with the adequate
background. The more advanced chapters can be used by researchers intending
to gather a deeper theoretical understanding.